If I told you that you could get paid
five to 10 times more for delivering the
exact same product with maybe 10% more
work, would you do it? Probably. And
that's what we're going to talk about in
this video. So, I run an a consulting
agency called Leftclick. We've worked
with everything from small local
businesses to multi-billion dollar
portfolio companies. In this video, I'm
going to show you a set of positioning
and framing strategies that you can use
to make much more money with only a
marginal amount of added effort.
Certainly not onetoone. So, there are
three ways to do this. The first is
positioning, then experience, and
finally risk. So let's start with
positioning. Never frame yourself as a
builder. When you sell workflows, which
I think unfortunately a lot of people
here do, you are inherently framing
yourself as basically being a
technician. Meaning you are somebody
that is working inside of the business
almost as an employee. And because you
are viewed as an employee, there are
employee level expectations surrounding
your compensation. Generally speaking,
when you do this, somebody's handing you
spec. Uh you're building the thing, you
know, and then you're delivering like a
JSON file or make.com blueprint. If you
contrast this with selling AI outcomes,
then you are now positioning yourself as
a partner. The idea is if you transition
to being a partner, you are the person
that a business owner will turn to when
they want to improve conversion rates,
reduce operational costs, scale their
team, basically higher level problems
that demand higher level pay. The
technical implementation when you do
this is actually now just a part of a
bigger pie. Essentially, a component of
a strategic relationship. Obviously,
you're probably wondering how the hell
do I do this? Let me show you. So, first
hypothetical example, we have a guy
called Dave the developer. He's super
technical. He knows every make.com
module, every node, every API endpoint,
and so on and so forth. When Dave talks
to clients, he's leading with his
technical capabilities. So, you know, I
think a lot of you guys are probably in
Dave's shoes. When you guys get somebody
that might be interested in a service,
you'll say something like, "Hey, I can
build you an AI lead qualification
system. It'll use custom web hooks and
multi- branch conditional logic that
will automatically score your prospects
based on a set of predefined criteria."
And that's well and good, and I've done
the same thing. But let's contrast this
approach with someone that I'm going to
call Serena the strategist. Now Serena
doesn't actually come from a technical
background. She does not know every
technical detail. What she understands
is business outcomes. When Serena talks
to that exact same client, okay, she's
saying, "Hey, I help companies double
their topline revenue by doubling the
number of qualified leads that come in
on the front end. And I do this using AI
lead qualification." So what Dave is
doing is selling a thing and Serena is
selling an outcome that just happens to
be mediated or delivered by the thing.
When Dave charges, he gets paid for the
complexity of the build. Which means in
order to get paid more money, Dave has
to try to make his build as complex as
possible. When you contrast that with
Serena, what she gets paid for is what
she delivers. It doesn't matter how
complex the solution is, which actually
means counterintuitively Serena gets by
with building very simple solutions. She
gets to save a ton of time in the
implementation. And then also because
she's outcome driven, she gets to
justify a lot more money to the client.
Cuz I mean, how much money would you be
willing to spend to double your revenue?
If you make $20,000 a month and Serena
is saying, "Hey, I'll make you another
$20,000 a month." You'd obviously be
willing to pay a fraction of that price,
right? So when I started LeftC, I made
this mistake a lot cuz I had just
learned so much AI, so much automation,
you know, and I was very enthusiastic
about the technology I really wanted to
share with the world. So I would get on
a call, you know, somebody would say,
"Hey, we suffer from X thing." And I
would immediately start talking about
all the technical ways you could solve
X. Well, you know, we could integrate
your CRM with your email marketing
platform using make.com. Uh we could set
up advanced segmentation based off user
behavior. We could connect X, Y, and Z
APIs and so on and so forth. And every
time that I would do this, I would
understandably not make that much money
selling the thing. Our ticket price in
the front end was probably like 1,500
bucks on average or something. And that
was because the client, to be honest,
didn't give a about how I would do
the thing. What the client cares about
is the what and the why. Right? If I'm
selling the how, I am inherently
positioning myself as somebody that
doesn't get the game. Now, it took me a
long time to figure this out, but
eventually I did. And now when somebody
says, "Hey, we suffer from X." I don't
say, "Okay, well, we can build you an
NAND workflow that does X, Y, and Z." I
say, "Wow, that must be costing you a
lot of money. Tell me more about that."
This is a consultant first principle.
When you are asking about outcomes,
you're no longer a builder. you are
essentially a strategic consultant who
happens just to have the ability uh to
use systems and use AI, right? As
opposed to being a builder by trade,
you're a consultant who happens to have
building skills, which makes you much
more dangerous from the client's
perspective because, you know, you're
not just capable of implementing stuff,
you're capable of bringing in strategic
insights to improve their business, just
like a fellow business partner would.
When you position yourself like that,
you also significantly improve your
upsell percentage because once a client
trusts you as a strategic partner, they
will inevitably start bringing other
problems to you, too. They'll say, you
know, while you're here, what do you
think about our customer retention? Uh,
do you have any thoughts on like how to
generate more leads and so on and so
forth? And then you're not just the
automation person or AI person. You are
their strategy person, which is worth a
lot more money to them over the long
term. Uh, very easy to go on things like
revenue shares. You can position
yourself for equity deals and so on and
so forth. And all this is because you
position from selling the thing itself
to selling the outcomes of the thing.
So, I'll get into some specific ways
that you guys could tweak this on your
end. But for now, just ask yourself not
what is the system I'm delivering, it's
what is the outcome of the system I'm
delivering. What is the system that I'm
delivering impacting in the person's
business? Okay. So, my second point is
you need to optimize for the human
experience. Now, it's going to sound
counterintuitive, but the biggest point
of leverage in AI is actually keeping
things human. The important bit is you
need to keep the right things human. So,
what are the right things? And
basically, it's anything that gives you
facetime with a customer. So, for
example, you can go to H&M and you can
buy a shirt for $25. You know, I'm
wearing a shirt that is probably like 30
or 40 bucks right now, but you can also
take more or less that exact same shirt.
Then you can wrap it up in the prestige
of a higher cost brand, something like
Burberry, and then you can charge $500
for the same materials. The only
difference between Burberry and then
that H&M shirt is the experience factor.
Okay, if you guys have never been to
Burberry before or any one of those
really high-end clothing stores, here's
how they work from a bird's eye
perspective. When you walk up to the
store, you will most likely see a
lineup. That lineup will limit the
number of people that can come into the
store. The reason they say is so they
can provide a personalized unique
experience to every shopper. What it's
really doing is it's adding a ton of
perceived demand. Then when you actually
get in, uh, you know, they might offer
you a drink or something like that, a
cup of warm tea or maybe some brandy.
They will then assign you a personal
style specialist. And that style
specialist will ask you, "Where are you
from, where do you live, what kind of
clothing do you like to wear?" Uh
they'll ask if you want them to measure
you without actually charging anything
because it's complimentary, right? The
store is going to smell amazing.
Probably going to be very beautiful
people working at the counter.
Basically, the idea is they're greasing
your wheels the whole time. Their value
proposition is not in the clothes. It's
actually everything around the clothes.
And of course, they'll do whatever they
can to convince you that their clothes
are better, but the main value prop is
how good they make you feel in their
store, not necessarily the thing that
they're delivering. The main value prop
is how privileged can we make our
customers feel. So regardless of your
opinions on this, in my case, I grew up
poor. So when I see stuff like this sold
all the time, I'm like, "This is
Why the hell would I ever buy
from that? If I could just go down to
Walgreens or Wyinners, but regardless
about how you feel about this, it makes
money and it makes a lot of it. The good
news is you can do the exact same thing
with AI consulting. So early on in
Leftclick, I who had just learned how
to, you know, automate a bunch of stuff
was obsessed with automating everything.
So client onboarding, I tried to
automate it. Uh project updates, I tried
to automate it. You know, invoicing, I
tried to automate it. And in my head, I
thought I was being really efficient. I
thought efficiency was key. What I found
was my clients felt like they were
dealing with a machine, not a person
when they had questions or concerns or
ideas. You know, in my pursuit of
efficiency, I would route them to some
sort of automated system to do it with
it. And you know, they would walk away
with more or less a pretty poor taste in
their mouth. When's the last time you
called some sort of automated help desk,
right? You don't feel great about it.
So, as a result of that, I had very,
very poor retention, very few upsells. I
made something like three or four times
less per customer. My LTV was quite
Now we provide a white glove
managed service. The whole idea is you
get strategic touch points, meaning you
get customized videos from me. You get
updates Monday, Wednesday, Friday. You
get personalized kickoff calls, right?
Rather than I just send you a form to
set things up, it's like no, I actually
guide you along that process. And when
we deliver stuff, we record lots of
videos because they provide us the
illusion of FaceTime without the sunk
cost of synchronous communication. And
obviously we still automate the hell out
of stuff behind the scenes. But we don't
automate anything that the client
personally experiences and as a result
we give them the perception of that
white glove service and we give them
peace of mind that we are taking care of
everything and ultimately that we are
willing to do it for the right pay. So
knowing what it takes to fulfill your
service is obviously important. You
obviously need to know how to do the
thing. But doing the thing is not the
thing that dramatically increases the
value of the thing. As a rule of thumb,
you guys should probably spend more time
figuring out your sales process, the
aesthetic quality of your deliverables,
uh you know, your onboarding sequence
and so on and so forth and the actual
technical implementation details
themselves. Cuz frankly, in the service
industry, if you just know how to do the
thing, you're actually already ahead of
90% of service providers. And that's
enough. You can now take the additional
time and energy you have and focus on
the packaging, presentation, and
delivery of the thing. Okay, so point
three is risk. And I put this last
because in order for us to have gotten
to this point, you will have needed to
understand the previous two points,
positioning and then the human
experience. So when you sell outcomes
instead of workflows and when you
understand the experience of the
customer is paramount, you gain massive
leverage from a sales perspective and
you're able to charge a lot more. And I
think more importantly, you're also
opening yourself up to the possibility
of using an advanced sales technique
which is the guarantee, also called risk
mitigation. So if you guys sell
workflows, you can't do this because
workflows are features of a system. You
can't guarantee features and have that
make any sense. You can't guarantee 15
nodes in your N8 flow. It's like why the
hell does that matter? Customer doesn't
give a about nodes. What you can
guarantee are outcomes. So if you sell
outcomes, this is now an option. You can
now say I guarantee this will improve
conversion rates by 5% in the next 30
days. If it doesn't, I'll continue
working for free until I make it happen.
Now guarantees are honestly a hell of a
sales hack. I recommend them to
everybody and their mom because in
general, they will increase your top
offunnel conversion. that is the number
of people at the front of your offer
that say yes by several hundred
percentage points and then all you have
to pay in exchange is a small cost at
the bottom of the funnel for the people
that don't actually hit the guarantee.
What I mean by this is you will increase
your top of funnel by 300% for maybe a
reduction in your bottom line of 10% or
so. If you do the math, it is like 300%
minus 10% of 300 is 30% meaning 270%
total. If I sat here and I offered you
2.7 times the money, what the hell would
you say? Obviously, you'd say yes. Also,
what's really important that not a lot
of people talk about is that guarantees
also in line incentives between you and
your customer. They are a pre-commitment
mechanism essentially that obligates you
to actually deliver the outcome that
you're promising. If you had two
universes and in one universe you had a
guarantee and the other universe you
didn't have a guarantee, like let's just
be real. In which universe are you more
likely to fulfill the thing? It's
obviously the one where you have to in
order to get paid, right? So in that way
it improves the probability of delivery.
It is literally about as free money as
you can get. An advanced version of this
is revenue shares and equity
partnerships. So when you are
guaranteeing outcomes, clients are a lot
more amendable to performance-based
compensation. You know, if you take 10%
of the revenue increase you generate for
the first year, you're no longer just a
vendor. You are a partner with skin in
the game. You are like their business
partner. Anyway, I promised you guys
some actionable points that you can use
to start immediately doing this. Uh
first off, you want to shift all your
systems to outcomes. This means you map
the technical capabilities to the
results that you actually provide. So my
recommendation here is don't start from
scratch. Actually go through all the
systems you've built or generated for
clients in the last year or two. Make a
giant Google sheet. You can also write
it on a freaking piece of paper if you
have to. And then for every one just ask
yourself what was the outcome that this
system delivered. Not the workflow but
the actual result on the business. Um,
in general, this is going to be stuff
like, you know, lift to conversion rate,
number of leads generated, ideally
number of dollars generated, amount of
profit generated, improvement to
margins, and so on and so on and so
forth. And you may not have access to
all this information immediately up
front, but you can get it. You know, if
you have clients who you still have
relationships with, or if you delivered
a project that didn't absolutely suck,
you can absolutely ask a client, hey,
I'm curious, how was the system that I
delivered holding up? What did this end
up doing for you in terms of your reply
rates or your CTR or whatever? So once
you're done with this, you will then
have a list of outcomes that you can use
to sell any sort of future client,
whether it's a case study, a portfolio
piece, that sort of thing in the
language that they actually care about.
Second, start working on upgrading the
client experience, specifically the
human aspect of your client experience.
Uh spend a weekend, you know, think
through the deliverables and the
aesthetic features of the assets that
you're giving people. What I mean by
this is like maybe right now you're
sending a Google doc with some
documentation. Well, you can upgrade
that, right? You could take your Google
doc and you could just assign some
client logo to the top right hand corner
of that doc and then you could just
template it out so that as part of your
SOP when you land a new client you just
add their logo to the top right hand
corner. Little things like this actually
make a very big difference to perceive
value. Likewise, client updates. One of
the lowest hanging fruit in any sort of
service-based business is just like
updating the client on how things are
going. If you just get in the habit of
sending clients some sort of update
Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, whether
it's actionable, whether it's not,
whether it's two or three bullet points,
or whether it's a big long essay, your
probability of being able to sell them
on a future deal goes up by hundreds of
percentage points. Third, once you have
the outcomes and a better client
experience, come up with a guarantee.
Okay? You can start with a simple 30-day
guarantee if you guys don't know what
else to do. Uh, we guarantee
satisfaction. Although it's kind of
about as poor a guarantee as you can
make, it's still technically better than
nothing. And if you guys have outcome
based sales and now a good customer
experience, the probability of you
actually having to like deliver some
sort of refund or whatever does go down
a lot. But anyway, better is guarantees
like, you know, I guarantee you at least
a 5% lift to your conversion rate within
30 days or you don't pay. I guarantee
you 20 booked sales appointments in the
next 60 days or I'll continue working
for free until I hit that. And that's
that. All right. And if you guys like
what you're hearing and you want to
consult with us on your own AI
automation or consulting needs, book a
call with my team. We'd love to see if
we're a good fit. And if you guys want
help implementing any of this stuff in
your own business, so positioning
yourself as a strategic consultant or
building some sort of guarantee
structure, optimizing your client
experience, that sort of thing, that's
exactly what my community Maker School
is for. There's a link down below in the
description. We guarantee you your first
paying customer in 90 days or you get
all of the money you spent on my program
back. Whatever the case, can't wait to
see you guys there. Thank you very much.
Hopefully you guys got some value to
this video and I'll catch you on the
next one.